# Using `.def` files to construct wiki pages
## Overview
This wiki system uses a method of generating web pages from text files, to accelerate development. Instead of Markdown or WikiText, for example, it uses a (fairly) unique markup language.  
The system uses several files:
```
definitions/
|- components.def
|- icons.def
|- general.def
|- navbar.def
+- pages.def
```
## Formatting
As pages are written in this markup language, they don't have access to CSS. As an alternative, special syntax has been introduced.  
It comes in the form of square brackets (`[ ... ]`), containing a code and the text to format, separated with a forward slash (`/`) .  
It works in: 
- Page titles (sort of)
- Page section headers (except `[.class/ ... ]`, `[c: ... / ... ]` or `[h: ... / ... ]`)
- Page section bodies
- Infobox group names
- Infobox property names and values
- Infobox navigator labels
- Infobox titles (with `{{name}}`)
- All component bodies
- Navigation bar section headers
- Navbar entry names
They might work in more places, but give unexpected results.

List of available codes:
- `[b/ ... ]` = bold text
- `[i/ ... ]` = italic text
- `[u/ ... ]` = underlined text
- `[s/ ... ]` = struck through text
- `[-> ... ]` = link to page with specified name
- `[-> ... as ... ]` = link to page with specified name showing specified text 
- `[-> ... as ... unf]` = link to page with specified name showing specified text, inheriting previous formatting (i.e. no link formatting)
- `[-^ ... ]` = link to external page with specified URL
- `[-^ ... as ... ]` = link to external page with specified URL, showing the second input as text
- `[-^ ... as ... unf]` = link to external page with specified URL, showing the second input as text, inheriting previous formatting
- `[c:(colour)/ ... ]` = coloured text
- `[h:(colour)/ ... ]` = highlighted text
- `[br]` = line break
- `[.(class)/ ... ]` = \<span> with (class) as a class.
- `[img/ ... ]` = icon with specified name (not case sensitive)
- `[{ ... }]` = insert a reusable component from `components.def`.
- `[{ ... : a : b : ... }]` = insert component, replacing placeholders with `a`, `b`, ...

- `[// ... ]` = code-formatted text.
- `[k/ ... ]` = represents keystroke, like the HTML \<kbd> element

If none of these codes fufil the requirement, the code
- `[html/ ... ]` = html override  

Can be used to insert HTML directly.

-----------------------------------
Some codes have extra considerations:  
`img` codes can display any one of these icons:
- `integrate`
- `not-integrate`
- `to-integrate`
- `partial-integrate`
- `isl`
Additional codes may be added in icons.def.

-------------------------
Useful `[.(class)/ ... ]` class names:
- `warn`: Makes background and text red, can be applied to sections with (title)! = (body);
- `c`: Centers text, can be applied to sections with (title): = (body);
- `unf`: Removes formatting, everything is inherited
- `bq`: Formats contents as a blockquote

- `head`: Formats as a header block
- `ur`: (For header blocks) Unreleased.
- `rm`: (For header blocks) Removed.
- `rc`: (For header blocks) Recently released.
- `uc`: (For header blocks) Unconfirmed.
- `ic`: (For header blocks) Incomplete page.
- `in`: (For header blocks) Outdated information.
- `cm`: (For header blocks) Community content.
- `tc`: (For header blocks) Technical.

- `buff`: (For history items) This change made the subject of the page better
- `nerf`: (For history items) This change made the subject of the page worse
- `neutral`: (For history items) This change did not change the viability of the subject of the page
- `undoc`: (For history items) This change was undocumented in the changelogs
---
Formatting tags can be nested up to 3 times. Anything after that will ignore _outer_ tags.  
Invalid codes will display without the square brackets.  
To type square brackets, use `[\ ... ]`. **This still takes up a nesting level.**  

-----
## Global
THis syntax applies to all `*.def` files.
```
# (comment)
  (property) = (value);
```
A `#` at the start of a line will make the line a comment, so ignored by the parser.  
A semicolon `;` ends a section or value.  
## `pages.def`
```
==(name);
  (property) = (value);
  (header) = (body);
  (header) = 
    (multiline
    body);
  versionHistory = 
    (Update 1): (change 1), (change 2) + (Update 2): (change 3) + (...);
  infobox = 
    (infobox);
```
2 equals signs (`==`) separate pages, and indicate the line with the page identifier.  
An equals sign with spaces around it (` = `) separates a section header from its body, or a property from its value. Any invalid property name will become a section.  
### Properties
Things about the page that you can change, but not move, such as title.  
List of all available properties:
- `title`: The page title. Simple enough.
- `class`: The type of content the page describes. Usually an actual JS class, but is sometimes an external link.
- `before`: (Only in `others.def`) Places a section before others, without a background or header.
- `infobox`: The contents of an `<info-box>` tag (see `info-box.md`, in this directory)
- `versionHistory`: A list of changes made to the page's subject, grouped by version number/name.
### Sections
Each section can have arbitrary text as body and header, with the one restriction that the header text cannot _exactly_ match a property name.  
Headers can either be in camelCase, or in normal Title Case. Camel case titles will be converted to title case where possible, but this may cause issues with acronyms such as 'HTML'.  
Section headers can be surrounded with brackets `( ... )` to be made invisible (they will be ignored by screen readers too).
## `components.def`
Defines reusable parts to insert using the special syntax `[{ ... }]`.
They are defined using `(name) = (value);`.  
You can add placeholders in the form `{n}`, where `n` ∈ ℕ.  
These will be replaced with values in the code:
`[{ ... : a : b : c : ... }]`.  
`{1}` will be replaced with `a`, `{2}` with `b`, and so forth.  
Any extra placeholders will be filled with the text `<?>`.
## `icons.def`
Defines icons to be inserted with the `[img/...]` code.  
They are defined similarly to components, in the form `(name) = (url)`.
URLs are relative to the `generator/` folder.  
`url` can contain alt text, separated from the actual URL by a `|`.
```
(name) = (url)
(name) = (url)|(alt text)
```
## `navbar.def`
Follows the same syntax as `pages.def`, but for a different purpose: it constructs the navigation bar on the left of the screen.
```
==(Category Name);
  (Display Name) = (page-to-link-to);
  (Display Name) = (page-to-link-to);
```
This is one of the few places where `[...]` codes only work on the *left-hand side* of the equals sign.
## `general.def`
Defines important basic information about the wiki (so, obviously, we put it at the bottom of the help file) which is required for it to function:
```
name = (name here);
issueUrl = (issue page url here);
icon = (path to page icon);
```